#summary Page describing the use of xml-dir-listing in Apache Ant

=XML Directory Listing Ant Task=

*A custom task for [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant] which acts as an interface to the XML Directory Listing program.*

==Description==

The XML Directory Listing Ant task acts as an interface to the !XmlDirectoryListing Java class. The task can be used to generate an XML representation of a directory, this could then be taken and transformed further with Ant for different end uses.

  * Access all features of the !XmlDirectoryListing Java class via Apache Ant
  * Tested with Apache Ant 6.5+. Please let us know if the task works with earlier versions!!

==Usage==

The task needs to be defined in you Ant build file. The definition must point to the xml-dir-listing.jar file which is included the lib directory of your XML Directory listing distribution.

{{{
<taskdef name="xml-dir-listing"
        classname="net.matthaynes.xml.dirlist.AntFileListing"
        classpath="/path/to/xml-dir-list.jar"/>
}}}

XML Directory Listing references two external libraries. You will need to ensure that Ant can find these too.

Users may want to copy all xml-directory-listing files to either the lib directory in their Ant home directory, or to a local lib driectory and then reference this using Ant's -lib flag. 

All files needed by Ant to use the task:

 * xml-dir-listing.jar
 * jakarta-regexp.jar
 * log4j.jar

Please see [] for more information on using external tasks in [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant]

==Parameters==

|| *Attribute* || *Description* || *Required* ||
|| srcDir || The directory to generate a listing for. || Yes ||
|| destFile || The output XML file. || Yes ||
|| depth || How deep into the directory structure to list || No ||
|| excludesRegEx || A regex pattern to exclude files from listing || No ||
|| includesRegEx || A regex pattern to include files from listing || No ||
|| reverse || If `true` sort odrder is reversed. Defaults to `false` || No ||
|| sort || Sort order. Options are `directory`, `lastmodified`, `name`, `size`. Defaults to `name` || No ||
|| dateFormat || The date format for date based attributes, [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html Java SimpleDateFormat]. Defaults to `yyyyMMdd'T'HHmmss` || No ||

==Examples==

Define the task in your build file:

{{{
<taskdef name="xml-dir-listing"
        classname="net.matthaynes.xml.dirlist.AntFileListing"
        classpath="/path/to/xml-dir-list.jar"/>
}}}

Using the task on the current directory with depth set to 5 and verbose output:

{{{ 
<xml-dir-list depth="5" verbose="true" srcDir="." destFile="fileList.xml"/>
}}}


==Support==

If you have any issues then please let us know, I will see what I can do.  I would also be very interested to hear what platforms and Ant versions people are using as I have not had time to extensivley test this task.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 